add agentharness docs (#372)
kagent-dev/website: src/app/docs/kagent/concepts/agent-harness/page.mdx

---
title: "Agent Harness"
pageOrder: 4
description: "Understand AgentHarness resources, OpenShell-backed execution environments, and backend-specific channel configuration."
---

export const metadata = {
  title: "Agent Harness",
  description: "Understand AgentHarness resources, OpenShell-backed execution environments, and backend-specific channel configuration.",
  author: "kagent.dev"
};

# Agent Harness

> An `AgentHarness` is a Kubernetes resource that asks kagent to provision a long-running remote execution environment through an OpenShell gateway. It is useful when you want a managed sandbox that can be attached to, bootstrapped, and connected to messaging channels, but you do not want kagent to package and run a full agent runtime inside the workload.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An `AgentHarness` is a Kubernetes custom resource that asks kagent to provision a long-running remote execution environment through an [OpenShell](https://github.com/NVIDIA/OpenShell) gateway. It is useful when you want a managed sandbox that can be attached to, bootstrapped, and connected to messaging channels, but you do not want kagent to package and run a full agent runtime inside the workload.
```

`AgentHarness` resources appear alongside agents in kagent APIs and status views, but they are not the same thing as `Agent` or `SandboxAgent`.

## How it differs from agents

- `Agent` runs a kagent-managed agent runtime, such as a declarative agent or a bring-your-own container.
- `SandboxAgent` runs an agent runtime inside a restricted sandboxed workload.
- `AgentHarness` provisions the execution environment itself. The selected backend decides what is installed and how the environment is bootstrapped.

Think of `AgentHarness` as lifecycle management for a remote shell or VM-like sandbox. It gives kagent a Kubernetes-native handle for creating, tracking, deleting, and surfacing that environment.

## Backend model

> The `spec.backend` field selects the backend implementation.

Reviewer: I am wondering if these backends are separate resources that you have to already have deployed to the cluster?

| `hermes` | Provisions a Hermes sandbox and writes Hermes configuration plus environment files for supported messaging channels. |

All backends use the same top-level `AgentHarness` shape: `backend`, `description`, `image`, `env`, `network`, `modelConfigRef`, and `channels`.

## Lifecycle and status

When the controller reconciles an `AgentHarness`, it translates the Kubernetes spec into an OpenShell sandbox request. If the sandbox already exists, reconciliation is idempotent and kagent reuses it.

The resource reports two primary conditions:

- `Accepted` tells you whether kagent accepted the spec and could hand it to the selected backend.
- `Ready` tells you whether the backend sandbox is available.

Once the sandbox exists, `.status.backendRef` records the backend and sandbox ID, and `.status.connection.endpoint` contains the connection hint returned by kagent.

## Models and images

`spec.modelConfigRef` points at a kagent `ModelConfig`. OpenClaw-compatible backends translate that model configuration into OpenClaw bootstrap config. Hermes uses the referenced model while building its Hermes configuration.

> If `spec.image` is omitted, kagent uses the default base image for the selected backend. Set `spec.image` only when you have a backend-compatible custom image.

Reviewer: Is the default base image something that kagent sets somewhere? or for nemoclaw would it be something like the most recent [tag](https://github.com/NVIDIA/NemoClaw/tags)?

## Network access

`spec.network.allowedDomains` limits outbound access from the harness when the backend supports network policy. Keep this list focused on the APIs the harness needs, such as model provider endpoints or messaging-provider APIs.

## Channels

> `spec.channels` declares messaging integrations inside the harness environment. Each channel has a stable `name`, a `type`, and exactly one matching channel spec.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`spec.channels` declares the external messaging platform (such as Slack) that you want to integrate with the harness. Each channel has a stable `name`, a `type`, and exactly one matching channel spec.
```
